README.md, before:

# fastify-jwt

[![js-standard-style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://standardjs.com/) [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/fastify/fastify/_apis/build/status/fastify.fastify-jwt?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/fastify/fastify/_build/latest?definitionId=5&branchName=master) [![Greenkeeper badge](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/fastify/fastify-jwt.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)

JWT utils for Fastify, internally uses [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken).

## Install
```
npm i fastify-jwt --save
```

## Usage
Register as a plugin. This will decorate your `fastify` instance with the standard [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken) methods `decode`, `sign`, and `verify`; refer to their documentation to find how to use the utilities. It will also register `request.jwtVerify` and `reply.jwtSign`. You must pass a `secret` when registering the plugin.

```js
const fastify = require('fastify')
fastify.register(require('fastify-jwt'), {
  secret: 'supersecret'
})

fastify.post('/signup', (req, reply) => {
  // some code
  const token = fastify.jwt.sign({ payload })
  reply.send({ token })
})

fastify.listen(3000, err => {
  if (err) throw err
})
```

For verifying & accessing the decoded token inside your services, you can use a global `onRequest` hook to define the verification process like so:

```js
const fastify = require('fastify')
fastify.register(require('fastify-jwt'), {
  secret: 'supersecret'
})

fastify.addHook("onRequest", async (request, reply) => {
  try {
    await request.jwtVerify()
  } catch (err) {
    reply.send(err)
  }
})
```

Aftewards, just use `request.user` in order to retrieve the user information:

```js
module.exports = async function(fastify, opts) {
  fastify.get("/", async function(request, reply) {
    return request.user
  })
}
```

However, most of the time we want to protect only some of the routes in our application. To achieve this you can wrap your authentication logic into a plugin like

```js
const fp = require("fastify-plugin")

module.exports = fp(async function(fastify, opts) {
  fastify.register(require("fastify-jwt"), {
    secret: "supersecret"
  })

  fastify.decorate("authenticate", async function(request, reply) {
    try {
      await request.jwtVerify()
    } catch (err) {
      reply.send(err)
    }
  })
})
```

Then use the `preValidation` of a route to protect it & access the user information inside:

```js
module.exports = async function(fastify, opts) {
  fastify.get(
    "/",
    {
      preValidation: [fastify.authenticate]
    },
    async function(request, reply) {
      return request.user
    }
  )
}
```

Make sure that you also check [fastify-auth](https://github.com/fastify/fastify-auth) plugin for composing more complex strategies.

## API Spec

### fastify-jwt
`fastify-jwt` is a fastify plugin. You must pass a `secret` to the `options` parameter. The `secret` can be a primitive type String, a function that returns a String or an object `{ private, public }`.

In this object `{ private, public }` the `private` key is a string, buffer or object containing either the secret for HMAC algorithms or the PEM encoded private key for RSA and ECDSA. In case of a private key with passphrase an object `{ private: { key, passphrase }, public }` can be used (based on [crypto documentation](https://nodejs.org/api/crypto.html#crypto_sign_sign_private_key_output_format)), in this case be sure you pass the `algorithm` inside the signing options prefixed by the `sign` key of the plugin registering options).

In this object `{ private, public }` the `public` key is a string or buffer containing either the secret for HMAC algorithms, or the PEM encoded public key for RSA and ECDSA.

Function based `secret` is supported by the `request.jwtVerify()` and `reply.jwtSign()` methods and is called with `request`, `reply`, and `callback` parameters.
#### Example
```js
const { readFileSync } = require('fs')
const path = require('path')
const fastify = require('fastify')()
const jwt = require('fastify-jwt')
// secret as a string
fastify.register(jwt, { secret: 'supersecret' })
// secret as a function
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: function (request, reply, callback) {
    // do something
    callback(null, 'supersecret')
  }
})
// secret as an object of RSA keys (without passphrase)
// the files are loaded as strings
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: {
    private: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/private.key`, 'utf8'),
    public: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/public.key`, 'utf8')
  },
  sign: { algorithm: 'RS256' }
})
// secret as an object of P-256 ECDSA keys (with a passphrase)
// the files are loaded as buffers
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: {
    private: {
      key: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/private.pem`),
      passphrase: 'super secret passphrase'
    },
    public: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/public.pem`)
  },
  sign: { algorithm: 'ES256' }
})
```

Optionaly you can define global default options that will be used by `fastify-jwt` API if you don't override them.

#### Example
```js
const { readFileSync } = require('fs')
const path = require('path')
const fastify = require('fastify')()
const jwt = require('fastify-jwt')
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: {
    private: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/private.pem`, 'utf8')
    public: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/public.pem`, 'utf8')
  },
  // Global default decoding method options
  decode: { complete: true },
  // Global default signing method options
  sign: {
    algorithm: 'ES256',
    issuer: 'api.example.tld'
  },
  // Global default verifying method options
  verify: { issuer: 'api.example.tld' }
})

fastify.get('/decode', async (request, reply) => {
  // We clone the global signing options before modifying them
  let altSignOptions = Object.assign({}, fastify.jwt.options.sign)
  altSignOptions.issuer = 'another.example.tld'

  // We generate a token using the default sign options
  const token = await reply.jwtSign({ foo: 'bar' })
  // We generate a token using overrided options
  const tokenAlt = await reply.jwtSign({ foo: 'bar' }, altSignOptions)

  // We decode the token using the default options
  const decodedToken = fastify.jwt.decode(token)

  // We decode the token using completely overided the default options
  const decodedTokenAlt = fastify.jwt.decode(tokenAlt, { complete: false })

  return { decodedToken, decodedTokenAlt }
  /**
   * Will return:
   *
   * {
   *   "decodedToken": {
   *     "header": {
   *       "alg": "ES256",
   *       "typ": "JWT"
   *     },
   *     "payload": {
   *       "foo": "bar",
   *       "iat": 1540305336
   *       "iss": "api.example.tld"
   *     },
   *     "signature": "gVf5bzROYB4nPgQC0nbJTWCiJ3Ya51cyuP-N50cidYo"
   *   },
   *   decodedTokenAlt: {
   *     "foo": "bar",
   *     "iat": 1540305337
   *     "iss": "another.example.tld"
   *   },
   * }
   */
})

fastify.listen(3000, err => {
  if (err) throw err
})
```

### fastify.jwt.sign(payload [,options] [,callback])
The `sign` method is an implementation of [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#jwtsignpayload-secretorprivatekey-options-callback) `.sign()`. Can be used asynchronously by passing a callback function; synchronously without a callback.

### fastify.jwt.verify(token, [,options] [,callback])
The `verify` method is an implementation of [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#jwtverifytoken-secretorpublickey-options-callback) `.verify()`. Can be used asynchronously by passing a callback function; synchronously without a callback.
#### Example
```js
const token = fastify.jwt.sign({ foo: 'bar' })
// synchronously
const decoded = fastify.jwt.verify(token)
// asycnhronously
fastify.jwt.verify(token, (err, decoded) => {
  if (err) fastify.log.error(err)
  fastify.log.info(`Token verified. Foo is ${decoded.foo}`)
})
```

### fastify.jwt.decode(token [,options])
The `decode` method is an implementation of [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#jwtdecodetoken--options) `.decode()`. Can only be used synchronously.
#### Example
```js
const token = fastify.jwt.sign({ foo: 'bar' })
const decoded = fastify.jwt.decode(token)
fastify.log.info(`Decoded JWT: ${decoded}`)
```

### fastify.jwt.options
For your convenience, the `decode`, `sign` and `verify` options you specify during `.register` are made available via `fastify.jwt.options` that will return an object  `{ decode, sign, verify }` containing your options.

#### Example
```js
const { readFileSync } = require('fs')
const path = require('path')
const fastify = require('fastify')()
const jwt = require('fastify-jwt')
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: {
    private: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/private.key`),
    public: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/public.key`)
  },
  sign: {
    algorithm: 'RS256',
    audience: 'foo',
    issuer: 'example.tld'
  },
  verify: {
    audience: 'foo',
    issuer: 'example.tld',
  }
})

fastify.get('/', (request, reply) => {
  const globalOptions = fastify.jwt.options

  // We recommend that you clone the options like this when you need to mutate them
  // modifiedVerifyOptions = { audience: 'foo', issuer: 'example.tld' }
  let modifiedVerifyOptions = Object.assign({}, fastify.jwt.options.verify)
  modifiedVerifyOptions.audience = 'bar'
  modifiedVerifyOptions.subject = 'test'

  return { globalOptions, modifiedVerifyOptions }
  /**
   * Will return :
   * {
   *   globalOptions: {
   *     decode: {},
   *     sign: {
   *       algorithm: 'RS256',
   *       audience: 'foo',
   *       issuer: 'example.tld'
   *     },
   *     verify: {
   *       audience: 'foo',
   *       issuer: 'example.tld'
   *     }
   *   },
   *   modifiedVerifyOptions: {
   *     audience: 'bar',
   *     issuer: 'example.tld',
   *     subject: 'test'
   *   }
   * }
   */
})

fastify.listen(3000, err => {
  if (err) throw err
})
```

#### decode options
* `json`: force JSON.parse on the payload even if the header doesn't contain `"typ":"JWT"`.
* `complete`: return an object with the decoded payload and header.

#### sign options
* `algorithm` (default: `HS256`)
* `expiresIn`: expressed in seconds or a string describing a time span [zeit/ms](https://github.com/zeit/ms). Eg: `60`, `"2 days"`, `"10h"`, `"7d"`. A numeric value is interpreted as a seconds count. If you use a string be sure you provide the time units (days, hours, etc), otherwise milliseconds unit is used by default (`"120"` is equal to `"120ms"`).
* `notBefore`: expressed in seconds or a string describing a time span [zeit/ms](https://github.com/zeit/ms). Eg: `60`, `"2 days"`, `"10h"`, `"7d"`. A numeric value is interpreted as a seconds count. If you use a string be sure you provide the time units (days, hours, etc), otherwise milliseconds unit is used by default (`"120"` is equal to `"120ms"`).
* `audience`
* `issuer`
* `jwtid`
* `subject`
* `noTimestamp`
* `header`
* `keyid`
* `mutatePayload`: if true, the sign function will modify the payload object directly. This is useful if you need a raw reference to the payload after claims have been applied to it but before it has been encoded into a token.

#### verify options

* `algorithms`: List of strings with the names of the allowed algorithms. For instance, `["HS256", "HS384"]`.
* `audience`: if you want to check audience (`aud`), provide a value here. The audience can be checked against a string, a regular expression or a list of strings and/or regular expressions. Eg: `"urn:foo"`, `/urn:f[o]{2}/`, `[/urn:f[o]{2}/, "urn:bar"]`
* `issuer` (optional): string or array of strings of valid values for the `iss` field.
* `ignoreExpiration`: if `true` do not validate the expiration of the token.
* `ignoreNotBefore`...
* `subject`: if you want to check subject (`sub`), provide a value here
* `clockTolerance`: number of seconds to tolerate when checking the `nbf` and `exp` claims, to deal with small clock differences among different servers
* `maxAge`: the maximum allowed age for tokens to still be valid. It is expressed in seconds or a string describing a time span [zeit/ms](https://github.com/zeit/ms). Eg: `1000`, `"2 days"`, `"10h"`, `"7d"`. A numeric value is interpreted as a seconds count. If you use a string be sure you provide the time units (days, hours, etc), otherwise milliseconds unit is used by default (`"120"` is equal to `"120ms"`).
* `clockTimestamp`: the time in seconds that should be used as the current time for all necessary comparisons.

### fastify.jwt.secret
For your convenience, the `secret` you specify during `.register` is made available via `fastify.jwt.secret`. `request.jwtVerify()` and `reply.jwtSign()` will wrap non-function secrets in a callback function. `request.jwtVerify()` and `reply.jwtSign()` use an asynchronous waterfall method to retrieve your secret. It's recommended that your use these methods if your `secret` method is asynchronous.

### reply.jwtSign(payload, [options,] callback)
### request.jwtVerify([options,] callback)
These methods are very similar to their standard jsonwebtoken counterparts.
#### Example
```js
const fastify = require('fastify')()
const jwt = require('fastify-jwt')
const request = require('request')

fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: function (request, reply, callback) {
    // do something
    callback(null, 'supersecret')
  }
})

fastify.post('/sign', function (request, reply) {
  reply.jwtSign(request.body.payload, function (err, token) {
    return reply.send(err || { 'token': token })
  })
})

fastify.get('/verify', function (request, reply) {
  request.jwtVerify(function (err, decoded) {
    return reply.send(err || decoded)
  })
})

fastify.listen(3000, function (err) {
  if (err) fastify.log.error(err)
  fastify.log.info(`Server live on port: ${fastify.server.address().port}`)

  // sign payload and get JWT
  request({
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
      'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    },
    body: {
      payload: {
        foo: 'bar'
      }
    },
    uri: `http://localhost:${fastify.server.address().port}/sign`,
    json: true
  }, function (err, response, body) {
    if (err) fastify.log.error(err)
    fastify.log.info(`JWT token is ${body.token}`)

    // verify JWT
    request({
      method: 'GET',
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        authorization: 'Bearer ' + body.token
      },
      uri: 'http://localhost:' + fastify.server.address().port + '/verify',
      json: true
    }, function (err, response, body) {
      if (err) fastify.log.error(err)
      fastify.log.info(`JWT verified. Foo is ${body.foo}`)
    })
  })
})
```

### Algorithms supported

The following algorithms are currently supported by [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#algorithms-supported) that is internally used by `fastify-jwt`.

algorithm(s) Parameter Value | Digital Signature or MAC Algorithm
----------------|----------------------------
HS256 | HMAC using SHA-256 hash algorithm
HS384 | HMAC using SHA-384 hash algorithm
HS512 | HMAC using SHA-512 hash algorithm
RS256 | RSASSA using SHA-256 hash algorithm
RS384 | RSASSA using SHA-384 hash algorithm
RS512 | RSASSA using SHA-512 hash algorithm
ES256 | ECDSA using P-256 curve and SHA-256 hash algorithm
ES384 | ECDSA using P-384 curve and SHA-384 hash algorithm
ES512 | ECDSA using P-521 curve and SHA-512 hash algorithm
none | No digital signature or MAC value included

## Acknowledgements

This project is kindly sponsored by:
- [LetzDoIt](http://www.letzdoitapp.com/)

## License

Licensed under [MIT](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs: add documentation for messages option

README.md, after:

# fastify-jwt

[![js-standard-style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://standardjs.com/) [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/fastify/fastify/_apis/build/status/fastify.fastify-jwt?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/fastify/fastify/_build/latest?definitionId=5&branchName=master) [![Greenkeeper badge](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/fastify/fastify-jwt.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)

JWT utils for Fastify, internally uses [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken).

## Install
```
npm i fastify-jwt --save
```

## Usage
Register as a plugin. This will decorate your `fastify` instance with the standard [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken) methods `decode`, `sign`, and `verify`; refer to their documentation to find how to use the utilities. It will also register `request.jwtVerify` and `reply.jwtSign`. You must pass a `secret` when registering the plugin.

```js
const fastify = require('fastify')
fastify.register(require('fastify-jwt'), {
  secret: 'supersecret'
})

fastify.post('/signup', (req, reply) => {
  // some code
  const token = fastify.jwt.sign({ payload })
  reply.send({ token })
})

fastify.listen(3000, err => {
  if (err) throw err
})
```

For verifying & accessing the decoded token inside your services, you can use a global `onRequest` hook to define the verification process like so:

```js
const fastify = require('fastify')
fastify.register(require('fastify-jwt'), {
  secret: 'supersecret'
})

fastify.addHook("onRequest", async (request, reply) => {
  try {
    await request.jwtVerify()
  } catch (err) {
    reply.send(err)
  }
})
```

Aftewards, just use `request.user` in order to retrieve the user information:

```js
module.exports = async function(fastify, opts) {
  fastify.get("/", async function(request, reply) {
    return request.user
  })
}
```

However, most of the time we want to protect only some of the routes in our application. To achieve this you can wrap your authentication logic into a plugin like

```js
const fp = require("fastify-plugin")

module.exports = fp(async function(fastify, opts) {
  fastify.register(require("fastify-jwt"), {
    secret: "supersecret"
  })

  fastify.decorate("authenticate", async function(request, reply) {
    try {
      await request.jwtVerify()
    } catch (err) {
      reply.send(err)
    }
  })
})
```

Then use the `preValidation` of a route to protect it & access the user information inside:

```js
module.exports = async function(fastify, opts) {
  fastify.get(
    "/",
    {
      preValidation: [fastify.authenticate]
    },
    async function(request, reply) {
      return request.user
    }
  )
}
```

Make sure that you also check [fastify-auth](https://github.com/fastify/fastify-auth) plugin for composing more complex strategies.

## API Spec

### fastify-jwt
`fastify-jwt` is a fastify plugin. You must pass a `secret` to the `options` parameter. The `secret` can be a primitive type String, a function that returns a String or an object `{ private, public }`.

In this object `{ private, public }` the `private` key is a string, buffer or object containing either the secret for HMAC algorithms or the PEM encoded private key for RSA and ECDSA. In case of a private key with passphrase an object `{ private: { key, passphrase }, public }` can be used (based on [crypto documentation](https://nodejs.org/api/crypto.html#crypto_sign_sign_private_key_output_format)), in this case be sure you pass the `algorithm` inside the signing options prefixed by the `sign` key of the plugin registering options).

In this object `{ private, public }` the `public` key is a string or buffer containing either the secret for HMAC algorithms, or the PEM encoded public key for RSA and ECDSA.

Function based `secret` is supported by the `request.jwtVerify()` and `reply.jwtSign()` methods and is called with `request`, `reply`, and `callback` parameters.
#### Example
```js
const { readFileSync } = require('fs')
const path = require('path')
const fastify = require('fastify')()
const jwt = require('fastify-jwt')
// secret as a string
fastify.register(jwt, { secret: 'supersecret' })
// secret as a function
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: function (request, reply, callback) {
    // do something
    callback(null, 'supersecret')
  }
})
// secret as an object of RSA keys (without passphrase)
// the files are loaded as strings
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: {
    private: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/private.key`, 'utf8'),
    public: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/public.key`, 'utf8')
  },
  sign: { algorithm: 'RS256' }
})
// secret as an object of P-256 ECDSA keys (with a passphrase)
// the files are loaded as buffers
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: {
    private: {
      key: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/private.pem`),
      passphrase: 'super secret passphrase'
    },
    public: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/public.pem`)
  },
  sign: { algorithm: 'ES256' }
})
```

Optionaly you can define global default options that will be used by `fastify-jwt` API if you don't override them.

#### Example
```js
const { readFileSync } = require('fs')
const path = require('path')
const fastify = require('fastify')()
const jwt = require('fastify-jwt')
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: {
    private: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/private.pem`, 'utf8')
    public: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/public.pem`, 'utf8')
  },
  // Global default decoding method options
  decode: { complete: true },
  // Global default signing method options
  sign: {
    algorithm: 'ES256',
    issuer: 'api.example.tld'
  },
  // Global default verifying method options
  verify: { issuer: 'api.example.tld' }
})

fastify.get('/decode', async (request, reply) => {
  // We clone the global signing options before modifying them
  let altSignOptions = Object.assign({}, fastify.jwt.options.sign)
  altSignOptions.issuer = 'another.example.tld'

  // We generate a token using the default sign options
  const token = await reply.jwtSign({ foo: 'bar' })
  // We generate a token using overrided options
  const tokenAlt = await reply.jwtSign({ foo: 'bar' }, altSignOptions)

  // We decode the token using the default options
  const decodedToken = fastify.jwt.decode(token)

  // We decode the token using completely overided the default options
  const decodedTokenAlt = fastify.jwt.decode(tokenAlt, { complete: false })

  return { decodedToken, decodedTokenAlt }
  /**
   * Will return:
   *
   * {
   *   "decodedToken": {
   *     "header": {
   *       "alg": "ES256",
   *       "typ": "JWT"
   *     },
   *     "payload": {
   *       "foo": "bar",
   *       "iat": 1540305336
   *       "iss": "api.example.tld"
   *     },
   *     "signature": "gVf5bzROYB4nPgQC0nbJTWCiJ3Ya51cyuP-N50cidYo"
   *   },
   *   decodedTokenAlt: {
   *     "foo": "bar",
   *     "iat": 1540305337
   *     "iss": "another.example.tld"
   *   },
   * }
   */
})

fastify.listen(3000, err => {
  if (err) throw err
})
```

### fastify.jwt.sign(payload [,options] [,callback])
The `sign` method is an implementation of [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#jwtsignpayload-secretorprivatekey-options-callback) `.sign()`. Can be used asynchronously by passing a callback function; synchronously without a callback.

### fastify.jwt.verify(token, [,options] [,callback])
The `verify` method is an implementation of [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#jwtverifytoken-secretorpublickey-options-callback) `.verify()`. Can be used asynchronously by passing a callback function; synchronously without a callback.
#### Example
```js
const token = fastify.jwt.sign({ foo: 'bar' })
// synchronously
const decoded = fastify.jwt.verify(token)
// asycnhronously
fastify.jwt.verify(token, (err, decoded) => {
  if (err) fastify.log.error(err)
  fastify.log.info(`Token verified. Foo is ${decoded.foo}`)
})
```

### fastify.jwt.decode(token [,options])
The `decode` method is an implementation of [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#jwtdecodetoken--options) `.decode()`. Can only be used synchronously.
#### Example
```js
const token = fastify.jwt.sign({ foo: 'bar' })
const decoded = fastify.jwt.decode(token)
fastify.log.info(`Decoded JWT: ${decoded}`)
```

### fastify.jwt.options
For your convenience, the `decode`, `sign`, `verify` and `messages` options you specify during `.register` are made available via `fastify.jwt.options` that will return an object  `{ decode, sign, verify, messages }` containing your options.

#### Example
```js
const { readFileSync } = require('fs')
const path = require('path')
const fastify = require('fastify')()
const jwt = require('fastify-jwt')
fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: {
    private: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/private.key`),
    public: readFileSync(`${path.join(__dirname, 'certs')}/public.key`)
  },
  sign: {
    algorithm: 'RS256',
    audience: 'foo',
    issuer: 'example.tld'
  },
  verify: {
    audience: 'foo',
    issuer: 'example.tld',
  }
})

fastify.get('/', (request, reply) => {
  const globalOptions = fastify.jwt.options

  // We recommend that you clone the options like this when you need to mutate them
  // modifiedVerifyOptions = { audience: 'foo', issuer: 'example.tld' }
  let modifiedVerifyOptions = Object.assign({}, fastify.jwt.options.verify)
  modifiedVerifyOptions.audience = 'bar'
  modifiedVerifyOptions.subject = 'test'

  return { globalOptions, modifiedVerifyOptions }
  /**
   * Will return :
   * {
   *   globalOptions: {
   *     decode: {},
   *     sign: {
   *       algorithm: 'RS256',
   *       audience: 'foo',
   *       issuer: 'example.tld'
   *     },
   *     verify: {
   *       audience: 'foo',
   *       issuer: 'example.tld'
   *     }
   *   },
   *   modifiedVerifyOptions: {
   *     audience: 'bar',
   *     issuer: 'example.tld',
   *     subject: 'test'
   *   }
   * }
   */
})

fastify.listen(3000, err => {
  if (err) throw err
})
```

#### decode options
* `json`: force JSON.parse on the payload even if the header doesn't contain `"typ":"JWT"`.
* `complete`: return an object with the decoded payload and header.

#### sign options
* `algorithm` (default: `HS256`)
* `expiresIn`: expressed in seconds or a string describing a time span [zeit/ms](https://github.com/zeit/ms). Eg: `60`, `"2 days"`, `"10h"`, `"7d"`. A numeric value is interpreted as a seconds count. If you use a string be sure you provide the time units (days, hours, etc), otherwise milliseconds unit is used by default (`"120"` is equal to `"120ms"`).
* `notBefore`: expressed in seconds or a string describing a time span [zeit/ms](https://github.com/zeit/ms). Eg: `60`, `"2 days"`, `"10h"`, `"7d"`. A numeric value is interpreted as a seconds count. If you use a string be sure you provide the time units (days, hours, etc), otherwise milliseconds unit is used by default (`"120"` is equal to `"120ms"`).
* `audience`
* `issuer`
* `jwtid`
* `subject`
* `noTimestamp`
* `header`
* `keyid`
* `mutatePayload`: if true, the sign function will modify the payload object directly. This is useful if you need a raw reference to the payload after claims have been applied to it but before it has been encoded into a token.

#### verify options

* `algorithms`: List of strings with the names of the allowed algorithms. For instance, `["HS256", "HS384"]`.
* `audience`: if you want to check audience (`aud`), provide a value here. The audience can be checked against a string, a regular expression or a list of strings and/or regular expressions. Eg: `"urn:foo"`, `/urn:f[o]{2}/`, `[/urn:f[o]{2}/, "urn:bar"]`
* `issuer` (optional): string or array of strings of valid values for the `iss` field.
* `ignoreExpiration`: if `true` do not validate the expiration of the token.
* `ignoreNotBefore`...
* `subject`: if you want to check subject (`sub`), provide a value here
* `clockTolerance`: number of seconds to tolerate when checking the `nbf` and `exp` claims, to deal with small clock differences among different servers
* `maxAge`: the maximum allowed age for tokens to still be valid. It is expressed in seconds or a string describing a time span [zeit/ms](https://github.com/zeit/ms). Eg: `1000`, `"2 days"`, `"10h"`, `"7d"`. A numeric value is interpreted as a seconds count. If you use a string be sure you provide the time units (days, hours, etc), otherwise milliseconds unit is used by default (`"120"` is equal to `"120ms"`).
* `clockTimestamp`: the time in seconds that should be used as the current time for all necessary comparisons.

#### messages options

For your onvenience, you can override the default HTTP response messages sent when an unauthorized or bad request error occurs. You can choose the specific messages to override and the rest will fallback to the default messages. The object must be in the format specified in the example below.

#### Example

```js
const fastify = require('fastify')

const myCustomMessages = {
  badRequestErrorMessage: 'Format is Authorization: Bearer [token]',
  noAuthorizationInHeaderMessage: 'Autorization header is missing!',
  authorizationTokenExpiredMessage: 'Authorization token expired',
  // for the below message you can pass a function as shown or a string
  authorizationTokenInvalid: (err) => `Authorization token is invalid: ${err.message}`
}

fastify.register(require('fastify-jwt'), {
  secret: 'supersecret',
  messages: myCustomMessages
})
```

### fastify.jwt.secret
For your convenience, the `secret` you specify during `.register` is made available via `fastify.jwt.secret`. `request.jwtVerify()` and `reply.jwtSign()` will wrap non-function secrets in a callback function. `request.jwtVerify()` and `reply.jwtSign()` use an asynchronous waterfall method to retrieve your secret. It's recommended that your use these methods if your `secret` method is asynchronous.

### reply.jwtSign(payload, [options,] callback)
### request.jwtVerify([options,] callback)
These methods are very similar to their standard jsonwebtoken counterparts.
#### Example
```js
const fastify = require('fastify')()
const jwt = require('fastify-jwt')
const request = require('request')

fastify.register(jwt, {
  secret: function (request, reply, callback) {
    // do something
    callback(null, 'supersecret')
  }
})

fastify.post('/sign', function (request, reply) {
  reply.jwtSign(request.body.payload, function (err, token) {
    return reply.send(err || { 'token': token })
  })
})

fastify.get('/verify', function (request, reply) {
  request.jwtVerify(function (err, decoded) {
    return reply.send(err || decoded)
  })
})

fastify.listen(3000, function (err) {
  if (err) fastify.log.error(err)
  fastify.log.info(`Server live on port: ${fastify.server.address().port}`)

  // sign payload and get JWT
  request({
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
      'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    },
    body: {
      payload: {
        foo: 'bar'
      }
    },
    uri: `http://localhost:${fastify.server.address().port}/sign`,
    json: true
  }, function (err, response, body) {
    if (err) fastify.log.error(err)
    fastify.log.info(`JWT token is ${body.token}`)

    // verify JWT
    request({
      method: 'GET',
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        authorization: 'Bearer ' + body.token
      },
      uri: 'http://localhost:' + fastify.server.address().port + '/verify',
      json: true
    }, function (err, response, body) {
      if (err) fastify.log.error(err)
      fastify.log.info(`JWT verified. Foo is ${body.foo}`)
    })
  })
})
```

### Algorithms supported

The following algorithms are currently supported by [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#algorithms-supported) that is internally used by `fastify-jwt`.

algorithm(s) Parameter Value | Digital Signature or MAC Algorithm
----------------|----------------------------
HS256 | HMAC using SHA-256 hash algorithm
HS384 | HMAC using SHA-384 hash algorithm
HS512 | HMAC using SHA-512 hash algorithm
RS256 | RSASSA using SHA-256 hash algorithm
RS384 | RSASSA using SHA-384 hash algorithm
RS512 | RSASSA using SHA-512 hash algorithm
ES256 | ECDSA using P-256 curve and SHA-256 hash algorithm
ES384 | ECDSA using P-384 curve and SHA-384 hash algorithm
ES512 | ECDSA using P-521 curve and SHA-512 hash algorithm
none | No digital signature or MAC value included

## Acknowledgements

This project is kindly sponsored by:
- [LetzDoIt](http://www.letzdoitapp.com/)

## License

Licensed under [MIT](./LICENSE).
